---
title: "CAMP 2024 is Here!"
description: "We invite Ph.D. students, master’s students, final-year undergraduates, and postdocs worldwide from all backgrounds to CAMP@Pune. At this intensive 17-day course, students will be trained in theoretical and computational modeling of memory and plasticity in the brain, spanning different scales of space, time, and complexity. This year’s flavor of CAMP will be Data-Driven Neuroscience. The course will have lectures, hands-on tutorials, and projects to launch students into the exciting field of computational neuroscience. Accommodation and meals will be covered for the participants."
pubDate: "Jun 12 2023"
heroImage: "/CAMP2024.png"
badge: "CAMP 2024"
tags: ["Workshop"]
---

Technology gives us access to high-dimensional, heterogeneous, and large-scale data on brain structure and function. At one end of the continuum, the traditional hypothesis-driven approach plays a crucial role in neuroscience research. This method relies on formulating specific questions based on existing theories, assumptions, and observations. It involves designing experiments to isolate variables and test hypotheses, often reducing the complexity of biological systems to manageable, simplified models. 

This approach has laid the foundation of much of neuroscience as we know it. However, the complexity of the brain, with its billions of interconnected neurons and a vast array of molecular processes, means that this approach can sometimes overlook emergent properties and interactions that are not apparent under highly controlled conditions or within the confines of existing theoretical frameworks. On the opposite end of the continuum are the exploratory, data-driven studies that have become increasingly feasible with the advent of high-throughput technologies and sophisticated analytical tools. 

These approaches harness the power of big data, applying machine learning algorithms, network analysis, and other computational methods to sift through vast datasets. Data-driven neuroscience can uncover previously unknown patterns, correlations, and causal links within these complex datasets, often revealing phenomena that were not predicted by existing theories. This can lead to the generation of new hypotheses and theoretical models, driving the field forward in unexpected directions. The Möbius strip idealizes the continuum of data-driven neuroscience where different aspects of neuroscience are woven into each other.

More details at [CAMP 2024](https://camp.iiserpune.ac.in)
